I remember seeing a critique of the
various forms of personality test
intelligence tests and aptitude tests
that were circulating and popular in the
Western world I remember a critique
pointing out that none of these tests
would ever tell you that you're lazy and
laziness is a force as fundamental as
gravity or any other law of physics and
explaining why society is the way it is
around us right now there can be no
doubt that for both those who are very
religious and for those who are very
secular the most fundamental reason why
the holiday of Christmas continues in
its current form is laziness there are
Christians who regard Christmas as wrong
because it represents a departure away
from what the Bible and legitimate
Christianity are supposed to represent
and of course there are secular atheists
who regard Christian is wrong precisely
because it is Christian and they want to
reject or challenge the social status
quo of a Christian dominated Christian
defined society but it's hard to do
something really creative it makes you
vulnerable it opens you up to judgment
and scorn and mockery I think everyone
is familiar with the paradox of the
stereotypical teenager who tries to do
something innovative in their style of
dress or their style of makeup or hair a
teenager who ostensibly and outwardly
says they don't want to conform they say
they want to do something creative but
what they end up doing instead is being
different just like everyone else they
conform to some other set of conformist
standards to be redundant which is to
say they reject one set of fashions for
another set of fashions that are equally
not of their creation not of their own
innovation and you wonder to what extent
it really is elective as opposed to
conform
behavior something I think all of us
have either dealt with ourselves growing
up or seen others deal with I say it
with some degree of sympathy when you do
something really creative even if it is
in a theater as shallow as your own hair
and makeup and clothing when you do
something genuinely creative genuinely
new innovative and unexpected it opens
you up to mockery and scorn
whereas clothing yourself in the
familiar attire of cultural expectations
is safe and the fundamental challenge
that atheists sceptics
and rational thinkers are facing in the
21st century is creative not destructive
were past the point when any purpose was
served by simply pointing the finger and
saying that Christmas is something bad
and wrong frankly I think we're past the
point of pointing the finger and saying
that elements of the faith or their
religion themselves are bad in role that
only gets you so far at some point we
have to stand up and creatively face the
challenge of not replacing music with
silence
but with new different better music of
not replacing customs with a mirror
empty space and sense of
self-righteousness but of recognizing oh
when I'm raising my child I need to have
fables to tell I need to have stories
and songs and maybe puppet shows and
rituals and it's not enough for me to
merely complain that the rituals of the
old society were linked to maybe
feudalistic ideals or fascistic ideals
or supernatural notions that i want to
repudiate we have to move on from
repudiating religion to replacing
religion and I stand in the party of
people who don't just want to replace
religion with another equivalent
religion I don't just want to see people
convert from Islam to Christianity or
Christianity Buddhism I really want to
see a regeneration of culture in the
21st century from root to branch and I
say this because I think especially as
parents if we're being honest with
ourselves the vast majority of what is
taught to our children is garbage is a
waste of everyone's time it's a waste of
your time singing it as a parent and
it's a waste of the child's time
learning it ring around a rosy a
pocketful of posies
how many times are we gonna sing this
song the the farmer in the Dell I mean
the whole accumulated wisdom of
storybooks and fables and fairy tales
they're intellectually bankrupt and
morally bankrupt ironically not just
from a secular atheist perspective but
also from the perspective of religious
fundamentalists this is often something
we have a in common at the two extremes
because those are the extremes of people
who are questioning cultural conventions
and we're asking in a sincere sense
where can we go from here now there's a
further irony I want to draw attention
to in this in this video
the irony is this nobody likes to be
told that they are lazy nobody likes to
be told that they're self-indulgent and
a hypocrite and yet the role that
secular atheist activists have taken on
in the 21st century is really one of
reproaching the religious establishment
for being lazy intellectually dishonest
self-indulgent hypocritical well at the
same time showing these same traits
showing how lazy they are how
hypocritical they are when it comes to
the challenge of replacing Christmas or
in any way offering a better positive
alternative to the institutions and
cultural assumptions that they rightly
criticized to be clear I'm not saying
that they're wrong in criticizing these
things I'm saying that criticism itself
has its remit and its limit and beyond
that we're looking at a truly creative
challenge when I say that people in the
new atheist movement are self-indulgent
what do I mean I was talking to a friend
of mine a relatively old friend of mine
recently in response to the the video
just prior to this one on this channel
and she was telling me that she used to
go to many of these conferences normally
called secular conferences new atheist
conferences sometimes using the label of
skeptic humanists under various settings
and she herself was once sexually
assaulted by someone by complete
stranger one of these conferences and
she was aware of these controversies
circling at the conference's about
sexual misconduct and bad behavior of
this kind and she observed she said part
of the underlying dynamic here is that
these are predominantly people who were
raised in a repressive religion they
were raised Mormon or Presbyterian or
even Catholic or Muslim and then they
come to these conferences to declare
that they're ready to sin that they're
ready for all of the indulgences that
they denied themselves for so many years
when they sincerely believed in this
religion right and this sets up a kind
of intellectual antagonism it sets up
the expectation that the function of the
secular movement is to liberate you from
the expectations of your grandparents to
set you on a path to this kind of
self-indulgence and to provide a set of
ready excuses for things you already
desire to do this isn't a framework that
presents you with a challenge of saying
hey you can't just replace a song with
silence
you can't just raise the next generation
raise your own children with a blank
sheet of paper where Christmas used to
be or where all these relatively
meaningless stories used to be whether
we think of those as a corporate
children's fables like Batman and
Superman and spider-man or if we think
of those as the folklore of the Dark
Ages or is the legacy of modern Western
religion and the creative element
requires great self-discipline great
self-sacrifice and real vulnerability
where people are gonna laugh at you
people are gonna make fun of you and
score you because you're doing something
genuinely and authentically
nonconformist and creative and new so I
know it's dorky but I'm out here no here
short you know it's done I'm out here so
all of you can laugh at me I've got this
is a pro so in the background already
this is a toy representation of of
Socrates and I've been going through a
stack of books
I already made a book review of one of
the worst of them this is just Aristotle
been reading the clouds which is a
classical comedy a critique of Socrates
in many ways different books that have
attempted in different ways to
popularize and reconceptualize the
historical and philosophical importance
of Socrates for children for young
adults and so on I've been looking
around these materials I'm looking at
them as raw material as precedents
inspiration in trying to trying to write
my own stories in trying to challenge I
mean not just the tyranny of you know
institutional Christianity but in some
ways just the tyranny of mediocrity the
extreme mediocrity of Curious George and
Peppa Pig and Batman and spider-man the
readily available and meaningless
institutions that seem to shape the
values that are passed on from one
generation to the next
all right I think people don't realize
how easy it is it's too easy to take up
the cause of atheism and skepticism
merely as an excuse for cheating on your
wife and I'm sorry but that is part of
what's going on right no 2018 that is
that is part of the problem
and the torrent of excuses I've received
I don't know maybe I received as many as
100 messages in total many dozens of
messages from people who identify as
skeptics and new atheists and as members
of the movement I received so many
messages insisting to me that there's
nothing wrong with celebrating a
so-called secular Christmas I really
have to ask you guys to look in the
mirror on this one I really have to ask
why it is you're overlooking the points
I already made my in my first video he
doesn't strike a chord with you what if
you lived in a society where people
celebrated the birthday of Adolf Hitler
you may not know it but you're living in
a society like that right now every so
often one of those people comes on
YouTube and uploads a video of that
neo-nazi subculture celebrating the
birthday of Adolf Hitler all over the
world including within Russia and within
China there are people who still
celebrate the birthdays of of Joseph
Stalin who celebrate Mao Zedong who
celebrate people who are responsible for
math mass murder pardon me for mass
murder those celebrations those symbolic
ritual events they don't do harm in
themselves they don't hurt people
directly
however they demonstrate who you really
are the reason why it's so terrifying to
find out that your neighbor celebrates
the birthday of Adolf Hitler is that it
tells you something about him and his
character it tells you something about
him of course
morally if you live in a society or if
you live in a family where you're
expected to not rock the boat to just
conform to just get along with the
celebration of Adolf Hitler's birthday
at some point there's an onus on you as
an adult to say no this tradition this
history it's gotta stop somewhere and
it's gonna stop with me now standing up
and doing what's right because it's the
right thing to do even if I have to risk
being laughed at being laughed at by my
own family
in replacing this with something better
how is it that the new atheist movement
has become so lazy that they do not
expect of themselves what they expect
Muslims to do in much more difficult
circumstances they do not expect
themselves to do what Hindus do in much
more difficult circumstances would you
accept for a minute that someone was an
ex Muslim and rejecting Islam if they
participated in all of the outward
trappings rituals and celebrations of
the Muslim faith you wouldn't accept it
at all you demand to know how is this
society ever gonna change if people of
principle like you don't stand up and
make that change happen and that's what
you should demand of yourselves and you
know it would require real courage real
risk to do that in Saudi Arabia even in
Malaysia Indonesia the so-called
moderate Muslim owners you can imagine
just how hard it would be to stand up
and refuse to participate in those
cultural conventions but here in the
decadent West where everythings made
easy for you by the corporate culture of
so-called secular Christmas you don't
even have what it takes to stand up and
do the right thing at no risk to
yourself really at no inconvenience and
maybe that is because you have come to
regard secularism as something
self-indulgent as something destructive
yes in that you just see the critique of
religion the repudiation of religions
the holes you remove as the whole of
your movement but also in that you're
avoiding really thinking through the
possibility that there's an onus on you
to take the next step to do something
creative if not for yourself alone for
the next generation and for the changes
that's going to bring about in society
these things do have negative
consequences for people living a life of
prayer of self-deception living a life
defined but cultural expectations that
are even indirectly formed by these
religions
living a life in which you perceive the
political status quo hierarchy Authority
secular Authority even in religious
terms in which the whole scope of what's
thinkable and unthinkable to you is
formed by the legacy of religion going
back for so many centuries the
accretions of religion even when you
take faith out of the picture even when
you because the vast majority of people
living within a Muslim society at your
society Christian society I have no
doubt that majority these people truly
in their heart of hearts don't believe
or feel that they can't believe even if
they want to believe but they
nevertheless live within those
strictures they live lives in which they
are constantly in subtle ways
encouraging others discouraging others
and punishing others to live within the
narrow band of what is thinkable in a
religious worldview and it's that
worldview we're trying to take apart and
to replace with something better as I
say I've received maybe 100 excuses for
why so-called secular activists new
atheists etc think there's nothing wrong
with continuing to celebrate Christmas I
think every single one of you is a
hypocrite who could not for even one
year take on the burden of in this same
way celebrating Muslim religious
traditions in an atheist way who could
not for one year take on the celebration
of Hindu cultural traditions in an
atheist way and you wouldn't looking
across the border to those countries you
wouldn't look fondly or caught kindly on
someone who was themselves personally an
inwardly an atheist but raising their
own child in that way within the
strictures of a Muslim cultural
tradition of a Hindu cultural tradition
because everything you believe
everything you represent is a challenge
to an
Gatien of that tradition so all I've got
to say to you is I hope you find the
strength to be vulnerable to be creative
and to see that we collectively can do
better than the Bible we can offer
something better than Christmas and I
think also we can offer something better
than Batman and Curious George
but it's all got to begin with the
recognition that there is a problem that
there's a creative challenge for us to
face so stop making excuses for
so-called secular Christmas it's lazy
it's hypocritical
it's self-indulgent and it's morally
wrong